NORTH CAROLINA, United States of America, March 16, 2021/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Global health technology experts, the BroadReach Group (BroadReachcorporation.com), and nonprofit research institute, RTI International (RTI) (RTI.org), are pleased to announce a partnership between the organizations. Together, they now will offer joint informatics solutions, powered by AI, synthesizing managerial, operational and other types of social and economic data. These state-of-the-art tools will help US healthcare payers and providers optimize health outcomes and organizational effectiveness at scale, while allowing for customization. 


                                This partnership will allow us to utilize data and technology to provide quality, impactful recommendations for improving health care across the country
                            

The organizations will use their complementary capabilities to deliver value in the USA. RTI brings health research and data science capabilities to the partnership while BroadReach delivers best-in-class direct implementation experience and technology solutions through its Vantage Health Technologies unit. 

“Our mission of improving the human condition has been the driver of RTI’s work for more than 60 years,” said Dr. E. Wayne Holden, President and CEO of RTI. “This partnership will allow us to utilize data and technology to provide quality, impactful recommendations for improving health care across the country.”

BroadReach has access to nearly 20 years of deep health system expertise and applies its technologies in the world’s most complex environments. 

“Our organizations share a common vision of a world where access to good health enables people to flourish,” says Chris LeGrand, CEO of the BroadReach Group. “Through this collaboration of complementary expertise, we will combine our transformational, technology-driven solutions to drive meaningful change and add value.”