KINSHASA, Democratic Republic of Congo, March 10, 2021/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            With over sixty years of local experience, Hollard Cigna have demonstrated their commitment to the people of DRC and have an excellent track record of adhering to local regulations. With this partnership, SFA will become one of the main insurance provider of international health insurance in DRC. With this great responsibility they will ensure easy access to affordable, quality healthcare for local and expat communities.



With Over 2,000 top-quality healthcare providers, Hollard Cigna Healthcare is already providing similar services in the region with coverage in neighbouring countries such as Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya. The Hollard Cigna family boasts dedicated staff services with more than 250,000 employees across Africa, and coverage in more than 20 African countries.
                                Moving forward Hollard Cigna Healthcare is sure to add many to the already large number of 25,000 lives saved in the country
                            

Their Established infrastructure with dedicated claims teams, medical board and fraud units provide an outstanding back office infrastructure that the partnership with SFA will reinforce by providing extra security to their world class equipment and facilities.

SFA Congo has been providing insurance in DRC since 2019 and has already established partnerships with SCOR one of the world’s leading Reinsurance companies worldwide.

With a wide range of products, SFA is able to meet the needs of all players in the DRC insurance market. From SME’s to multinational corporations the company prides itself on being tagged ‘Insurer of the Corporate World’ by leading Pan African publication – Le Jeune Afrique.

The partnership between Hollard Cigna Healthcare and SFA signals a new era for healthcare standards in the DRC. Moving forward Hollard Cigna Healthcare is sure to add many to the already large number of 25,000 lives saved in the country.