JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, March 4, 2021/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            There has been growing momentum in the energy sector which appears to give credence to governments across the world’s commitment to transition to low-carbon economies. The promise to expand the existing network of Renewable Energy Development (RED) Zones and power corridors incentivizing cleaner energy and including such placement within mining areas, not only to promote self-generation by mines, but also sustainable rehabilitation.



H.E. president Cyril Ramaphosa said at the opening of the Investing in Africa Mining Indaba recently, that he implores mining entities to invest in sustainable energy resources. This sentiment has been echoed by minister Gwede Mantashe and his Department of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE), the past couple of months.

Securing the various environmental benefits associated with mining and energy developments remains challenging and at times it restricts innovation within these sectors.

The industrial sector is responsible for 20% of total greenhouse gas emissions. The current context creates the opportunity to rethink our industries; to build resilience and increase competitiveness, while reducing emissions and paving the way towards a carbon-neutral future. The smart solutions that reduce energy consumption, improve productivity, and help integrate renewable energy sources are available today.

The World Bank estimates that production of minerals like graphite, lithium and cobalt will grow by 500% in the next three decades to meet demand for clean energy technologies.

It is with this in mind, that the Danfoss Drives office in South Africa, has rolled-out a series of thought leadership webinars on the topic of Energy Efficiency in 2020. With the campaign’s overwhelming success with international audiences, the webinar campaign was extended into 2021. This year the webinars will focus on technologies that optimize energy consumption & longevity of drive components in the mining industry.

Read more about Danfoss’ Green Restart Series (bit.ly/38acL4T)

Here are the registration links to the first webinars –

Variable Speed/Frequency Drives (VFD) are expanding their use as the starter of choice, not only in applications that require speed control but also in applications that require torque control and mechanical ‘soft starting’.
                                This year the webinars will focus on technologies that optimize energy consumption & longevity of drive components in the mining industry
                            

The VFD has the capability to perform active load sharing between multiple motors on the same operating system, allowing one VFD to assume the function of a master and others as the follower, so when the master’s torque increases, the follower’s torque limit increases, allowing it to contribute more torque to the load.

Danfoss Drives - Master Follower Applications - 29 April - bit.ly/30cDyt6

Danfoss Drives - Master Follower Applications - 27 May - bit.ly/38bYkNY

The world stands on the verge of a sustainable transformation.

Today, we have proven and reliable solutions to meet many of our climate, urbanization, and food challenges. Driven by the power of an electrified society and fueled by the opportunities of going digital, Danfoss is dedicated to engineering solutions that can unleash the potential of tomorrow.

With the promise of quality, reliability, and innovation deeply rooted in our DNA, we deliver an extensive range of products and solutions across our business segments of Heating, Cooling, Drives, and Power Solutions.

Across the globe, our sustainable, smart technologies power industries and cities, secure a reliable food supply, and create healthier, more comfortable indoor climates.

At the same time, we’re developing solutions that integrate renewables into tomorrow’s smart energy systems, where on- and off-highway machinery and shipping are powered by hybrid and electric motors.

This is where the transformation starts – in the way we heat, cool, connect, and feed a growing population. Together with our customers, we help make a greener and better future a reality.

Together, we are engineering tomorrow.

Our innovative engineering dates back to 1933. Today, Danfoss holds market-leading positions, employing 28,000 and serving customers in more than 100 countries. We are privately held by the founding family. Read more about us at Danfoss.com.