DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, February 3, 2021/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Today, Canon Europe (Canon-Europe.com) announces the launch of the imagePRESS C170 Series, allowing businesses to explore creative printing in-house. Designed to deliver high-resolution, personalised, vividly coloured prints, it offers an alternative solution for businesses looking to push their creative limits.



A creative powerhouse

Following the successful launch of the imagePRESS C165 in 2019 and the continual industry demand for streamlined professional workflows in office environments, the imagePRESS C170 brings serious creative power, equipping businesses with the ability to create ultra-colourful, ultra-crisp prints at a professional standard. Launched to further support an organisation’s wide-ranging printing needs and helps them to diversify their creative options, thanks to its ability to can handle distinctive formats alongside standard A4 and A3 media, including envelopes and heavy media up to 350gsm, and long-sheet banners up to 1300mm. For further flexibility, the devices can support gloss, silk, plain and textured media, as well as delivering a large range of in-line professional finishing for versatile and creative outputs.

Empowering productivity
                                The imagePRESS C170 Series offers world-class printing technology to revolutionise print communications and empower hybrid working
                            

With hybrid ways of working accelerating and the role of the office diversifying, businesses have a heightened need to be as productive as possible whilst in the office. Combining office functionality and connectivity, with professional output, the imagePRESS C170 Series enables customers to broaden their print capabilities, capitalising on their investment.

Designed to meet fast turnaround times and deadlines, the imagePRESS C170 Series offers incredible speeds of up to 70 pages per minute (ppm) in colour, and up to 80 ppm in black and white, so users can get work done quicker. The device is intended to be as easy to use as possible, offering the same intuitive interface, navigation and customer experience as other Canon devices, further saving time.

Like the imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX models, the imagePRESS C170 Series offers security features designed to help users safeguard sensitive information, ensure employee and customer privacy, and assist in regulatory compliance in high-end office and light production environments. Once activated, the McAfee Embedded Control feature helps block the execution of unauthorised applications through intelligent whitelisting. 

Amine Djouahra, Sales and Marketing Director at Canon Central and North Africa commented: “The way we work is changing at incredible speed, but for many, the office is a hub for collaboration; where the physical meets the digital, and where creativity thrives. The imagePRESS C170 Series offers world-class printing technology to revolutionise print communications and empower hybrid working.” 

With its high-quality printing capabilities and professional finishing options, the imagePRESS C170 Series enables businesses to drive customer engagement and unleash the power of print.

For more information about imagePRESS C170 Series, please visit: bit.ly/3jd4GRf

Key Specs - imagePRESS C170 series 


	Print speeds up to 70 ppm A4 in colour and 80 ppm in black and white
	Scans up to 240 ipm A4
	Media size up 1300 mm in length and heavy media up to 350 gsm
	High quality output with accurate, precise and sharp image quality thanks to the imagePRESS R-VCSEL and 2400 x 2400 dpi print resolution
	360° security with McAfee Embedded Control software
	Consistent quality with Multi-Density Adjustment Technology
	Multi-functional Embedded Application Platform (MEAP) ready platform and print anywhere functionality with uniFLOW Online and Mopria